Add tutorials and quickstart page (#4315)
HypothesisWorks/hypothesis: hypothesis-python/docs/tutorial/settings.rst

Settings
========

> The |@settings| decorator lets you control how Hypothesis runs a particular test. Using it looks like this:

Reviewer: I think we want to explain at a conceptual level why we even have settings + what kinds of things they control, before getting into the decorator.  I'd also prefer to lead with profiles, and then present the decorator form as 'for the rare cases where you have a particular test which needs different configuration, ...'

Author: +1 on the first half, but IMO the settings decorator is much more common than profiles. I think the most common use of settings is to tune max_examples, and that's one of the settings where setting a global value via a profile makes the least sense. I think the flow of "settings changes hypothesis for all tests, and here's how to apply it to a single one" makes as much sense as "settings changes hypothesis for one test, and here's how to apply it to all of them", so I'd prefer to lead with the most common usage

.. code-block:: python

    from hypothesis import given, settings, strategies as st

    @given(st.integers())
    @settings(max_examples=5)
    def test(n):
        print("prints five times")

The default is 100 examples.

.. TODO_DOCS
.. .. note::

..     See :doc:`../explanation/example-count` for details on how |max_examples| interacts with other parts of Hypothesis.

Other options
-------------

Here are a few of the more commonly-used setting values:

* |settings.derandomize|, to make Hypothesis deterministic
* |settings.database|, to control how and if Hypothesis replays failing examples
* |settings.verbosity|, to print debug information
* |settings.phases|, to control which phases of Hypothesis run (database replay, generation, shrinking, etc)

.. note::

    See the |@settings| reference for a full list of possible settings.

Setting profiles
----------------

If you want to change the value of a setting for all tests, you can use setting profiles.

To define a setting profile, use |settings.register_profile|:

.. code-block:: python

    from hypothesis import HealthCheck, settings

    settings.register_profile("my_profile_name", max_examples=200)

> You can place this code in any file which pytest loads during test collection. This includes any of your test files, an ``__init__.py`` file in your test directory, or — if using pytest — a ``conftest.py`` file.

Reviewer: let's generalize this so that the advice is first true for any test-runner, and _then_ give some pytest-specific advice.

Using |@settings| on a single test looks like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from hypothesis import given, settings, strategies as st

    @given(st.integers())
    @settings(max_examples=200)
    def runs_200_times_instead_of_100(n):
        pass

You can put |@settings| either before or after |@given|. Both are equivalent.

Changing the number of examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have a test which is very expensive or very cheap to run, you can change the number of examples (inputs) Hypothesis generates with the |max_examples| setting:

.. code-block:: python

    from hypothesis import given, settings, strategies as st

    @given(st.integers())
    @settings(max_examples=5)
    def test(n):
        print("prints five times")

The default is 100 examples.

.. TODO_DOCS
.. .. note::

..     See :doc:`../explanation/example-count` for details on how |max_examples| interacts with other parts of Hypothesis.

Other settings options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here are a few of the more commonly used setting values:

> * |settings.derandomize| makes Hypothesis deterministic.

Reviewer: I'd add

> ([_Two Kinds of Testing_](https://blog.nelhage.com/post/two-kinds-of-testing/) discusses when and why you might want that)

* |settings.database| controls how and if Hypothesis replays failing examples.
* |settings.verbosity| to print debug information.
* |settings.phases| controls which phases of Hypothesis run, like replaying from the database or generating new inputs.

.. note::

    See the |@settings| reference for a full list of possible settings.

Changing settings across your test suite
----------------------------------------

> Alternatively, you can configure test behavior across your test suite using a settings profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to decorating individual test functions, you can configure test behavior across your test suite using a settings profile.
```

To create a settings profile, use |settings.register_profile|:

.. code-block:: python

    from hypothesis import HealthCheck, settings

    settings.register_profile("my_profile_name", max_examples=200)

You can place this code in any file which gets loaded before your tests get run. This includes an ``__init__.py`` file in the test directory or any of the test files themselves. If using pytest, the standard location to place this code is in a ``confest.py`` file (though an ``__init__.py`` or test file will also work).

> Note that registering a new profile will not affect tests until loaded with |settings.load_profile|:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that registering a new profile will not affect tests until it is loaded with |settings.load_profile|:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from hypothesis import HealthCheck, settings

    settings.register_profile("my_profile_name", max_examples=200)

    # any tests executed before loading this profile will still use the
    # default of 100 examples.

    settings.load_profile("my_profile_name")

    # any tests executed after this point will use your profile of
    # 200 examples.

> There is no limit to the number of settings profiles you can create. Hypothesis creates a profile called ``"default"``, which is loaded by default. You can also explicitly load it at any time using ``settings.load_profile("default")``, if for instance you want to revert a custom profile you had previously loaded.

Reviewer: There's also the `"ci"` profile, which will be automatically loaded based on the `"CI"` envvar.

This makes me think that our reference docs should include a definition list generated from profile-name to repr-of-settings...

You can place this code in any file which gets loaded before your tests get run. This includes an ``__init__.py`` file in the test directory or any of the test files themselves. If using pytest, the standard location to place this code is in a ``confest.py`` file (though an ``__init__.py`` or test file will also work).

> Note that a profile does not take effect until loaded with |settings.load_profile|:

Reviewer: recently changed iirc; we now automatically reload if you define a profile with the current profile name

Author: true, but do you think it's worth saying this? Seems like an advanced detail to me

Reviewer: We definitely shouldn't say untrue things in the tutorial, even if it's a bit more complicated.

Author: that's true. It's pretty tough to work in here for me though. I've tried to sidestep it by rewriting to `a new profile`
